README.md, before:

# PostgreSQL Git Foreign Data Wrapper [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/franckverrot/git_fdw.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/franckverrot/git_fdw)

git\_fdw is a Git Foreign Data Wrapper for PostgreSQL written in C.

It is making use of [`libgit2`](libgit2.github.com).

## INSTALLATION

### Prerequisites

* libgit2-dev (supports up to v0.27)
* PostgreSQL 9.4+
  * `IMPORT FOREIGN SCHEMA` doesn't exist with 9.4, please use `CREATE FOREIGN TABLE` instead.


### Building the extension

#### With PGXN

Simply run

    pgxn install git_fdw

#### From source

Building git\_fdw is as simple as

    make

and installing it only requires oneself to

    make install


### Configuring the Foreign Data Wrapper

Now you can start setting up your environment to access git repositories:

    franck=# CREATE EXTENSION git_fdw;
    CREATE EXTENSION

    franck=# CREATE SERVER git_fdw_server FOREIGN DATA WRAPPER git_fdw;
    CREATE SERVER


With the support of `IMPORT FOREIGN SCHEMA` in PostgreSQL 9.5+:

    franck=# IMPORT FOREIGN SCHEMA git_data
             FROM SERVER git_fdw_server
             INTO public
             OPTIONS (
                 path   '/git_fdw/repo.git',
                 branch 'refs/heads/master',
                 prefix 'rails_':
             );

`LIMIT TO` and `EXCEPT` are not supported.


With PostgreSQL 9.4:

    franck=# CREATE FOREIGN TABLE
        rails_repository (
            sha1          text,
            message       text,
            name          text,
            email         text,
            commit_date   timestamp with time zone,
            insertions    int,
            deletions     int,
            files_changed int
        )
        SERVER git_fdw_server
        OPTIONS (
            path   '/home/franck/rails.git',
            branch 'refs/heads/master'
        );
    CREATE FOREIGN TABLE


    franck=# SELECT message, name FROM rails_repository LIMIT 10;
                             message                          |          name
    ----------------------------------------------------------+------------------------
     Revert "Merge pull request #15312 from JuanitoFatas/acti | Matthew Draper
     Merge pull request #16908 from y-yagi/change_activejob_t | Abdelkader Boudih
     Change ActiveJob test directory to "test/jobs"          +| yuuji.yaginuma
                                                              |
     Merge pull request #16669 from aantix/dangerous_attribut | Rafael Mendonça França
     Changed the DangerousAttributeError exception message to | Jim Jones
     Prepare maintenance policy for 4.2 release [ci skip]    +| Rafael Mendonça França
                                                              |
     Se the test order of activejob tests                    +| Rafael Mendonça França
                                                              |
     Change gid calls to to_gid                              +| Rafael Mendonça França
                                                              |
     Merge pull request #16897 from kostia/message-varifier-r | Rafael Mendonça França
     Changes "if secret.nil?" to unless secret in MessageVerf | Kostiantyn Kahanskyi
    (10 rows)


It is not possible to access multiple repositories through the same foreign
table. We suggest the usage of views if this is something that needs to be
achieved.

## CONFIGURATION

### Server

There are no options that can be passed to a git\_fdw server.

### Foreign Table

One must configure the foreign tables appropriately.

Here are the options:

  * (Required) `path`: The path of the git repository;
  * (Required) `branch`: The branch to be used;
  * (Optional) `git_search_path`: Sometimes libgit2 has to be told where to find your configuration. See #10 for details.

## Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with version or history. (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

## LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2014-2018 Franck Verrot. MIT LICENSE. See LICENSE.md for details.

Commit message:

Add more details on how to run tests locally

README.md, after:

# PostgreSQL Git Foreign Data Wrapper [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/franckverrot/git_fdw.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/franckverrot/git_fdw)

git\_fdw is a Git Foreign Data Wrapper for PostgreSQL written in C.

It is making use of [`libgit2`](libgit2.github.com).

## INSTALLATION

### Prerequisites

* libgit2-dev (supports up to v0.27)
* PostgreSQL 9.4+
  * `IMPORT FOREIGN SCHEMA` doesn't exist with 9.4, please use `CREATE FOREIGN TABLE` instead.


### Building the extension

#### With PGXN

Simply run

    pgxn install git_fdw

#### From source

Building git\_fdw is as simple as

    make

and installing it only requires oneself to

    make install


### Configuring the Foreign Data Wrapper

Now you can start setting up your environment to access git repositories:

    franck=# CREATE EXTENSION git_fdw;
    CREATE EXTENSION

    franck=# CREATE SERVER git_fdw_server FOREIGN DATA WRAPPER git_fdw;
    CREATE SERVER


With the support of `IMPORT FOREIGN SCHEMA` in PostgreSQL 9.5+:

    franck=# IMPORT FOREIGN SCHEMA git_data
             FROM SERVER git_fdw_server
             INTO public
             OPTIONS (
                 path   '/git_fdw/repo.git',
                 branch 'refs/heads/master',
                 prefix 'rails_':
             );

`LIMIT TO` and `EXCEPT` are not supported.


With PostgreSQL 9.4:

    franck=# CREATE FOREIGN TABLE
        rails_repository (
            sha1          text,
            message       text,
            name          text,
            email         text,
            commit_date   timestamp with time zone,
            insertions    int,
            deletions     int,
            files_changed int
        )
        SERVER git_fdw_server
        OPTIONS (
            path   '/home/franck/rails.git',
            branch 'refs/heads/master'
        );
    CREATE FOREIGN TABLE


    franck=# SELECT message, name FROM rails_repository LIMIT 10;
                             message                          |          name
    ----------------------------------------------------------+------------------------
     Revert "Merge pull request #15312 from JuanitoFatas/acti | Matthew Draper
     Merge pull request #16908 from y-yagi/change_activejob_t | Abdelkader Boudih
     Change ActiveJob test directory to "test/jobs"          +| yuuji.yaginuma
                                                              |
     Merge pull request #16669 from aantix/dangerous_attribut | Rafael Mendonça França
     Changed the DangerousAttributeError exception message to | Jim Jones
     Prepare maintenance policy for 4.2 release [ci skip]    +| Rafael Mendonça França
                                                              |
     Se the test order of activejob tests                    +| Rafael Mendonça França
                                                              |
     Change gid calls to to_gid                              +| Rafael Mendonça França
                                                              |
     Merge pull request #16897 from kostia/message-varifier-r | Rafael Mendonça França
     Changes "if secret.nil?" to unless secret in MessageVerf | Kostiantyn Kahanskyi
    (10 rows)


It is not possible to access multiple repositories through the same foreign
table. We suggest the usage of views if this is something that needs to be
achieved.

## CONFIGURATION

### Server

There are no options that can be passed to a git\_fdw server.

### Foreign Table

One must configure the foreign tables appropriately.

Here are the options:

  * (Required) `path`: The path of the git repository;
  * (Required) `branch`: The branch to be used;
  * (Optional) `git_search_path`: Sometimes libgit2 has to be told where to find your configuration. See #10 for details.

## Contributing

### Patches/Pull Requests workflow

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with version or history. (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.


### How to run the tests

The project has been configured to run on Travis CI automatically, but one can
run tests manually with those simple steps (more details in the `.travis.yml`
file):

    export PG_VERSION=11

    # Build the docker image
    docker build -f tests/Dockerfiles/$PG_VERSION -t my_git_fdw .

    # Run the tests in the container and mount the current directory inside of the
    # container at /git_fdw
    #
    # This makes it possible to update the dynamic files (like the .sql files)
    # without having to rebuild the whole image.
    docker run --rm --volume `pwd`:/git_fdw my_git_fdw tests/run.sh $PG_VERSION


## LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2014-2018 Franck Verrot. MIT LICENSE. See LICENSE.md for details.
